---
layout: default
title: Physics for Life Sciences I - Worksheet 05
course_home: /courses/phys-for-life-sci-i/
nav_section: practice
nav_order: 5
---

# Lecture 05 Worksheet

---

### Today’s Toolkit

<div class="two-column">

<div class="column">


<strong>Kinematic Equations</strong>

$$
v_f = v_i + a \, \Delta t
$$

$$
\Delta x = \tfrac{1}{2} \big( v_i + v_f \big) \, \Delta t
$$

$$
\Delta x = v_i \, \Delta t + \tfrac{1}{2} \, a\, (\Delta t)^2
$$

$$
v_f^2 = v_i^2 + 2 a \, \Delta x
$$


</div>

<div class="column">

| $v_i$ | $v_f$ | $\Delta x$ | $\Delta t$ | $a$ |
| :---: | :---: | :--------: | :--------: | :-: |
|  |  | X |  |  |
|  |  |  |  | X |
|  | X |  |  |  |
|  |  |  | X |  |

</div>

</div>

---

### Example 01
Jamie is traveling in a spaceship with an initial velocity of 100 km/s. She gets bored of the long trip and speeds up with an acceleration of 50 km/s/s for 2 seconds. 

What is her final velocity?



<div class="work-space-sm"></div>



### Example 02
Two radars located at different points along a stretch of the highway read a truck’s speed to be 30 km/hr and 60 km/hr. The truck took 15 seconds to travel from the first radar to the second.

How far apart are the radars?

<div class="work-space-sm"></div>

What is the average speed of the truck?

<div class="work-space-sm"></div>



### Example 03
A jogger is running at 2 m/s. At 0 seconds, he starts to speed up at a rate of $0.5\ \frac{\text{m/s}}{\text{s}}$. 

How far will he run after 4 seconds?

<div class="work-space-sm"></div>


### Example 04
Starship Enterprise is cruising at 500 km/s. Receiving a distress signal it starts to speed up with an acceleration of $1000\ \frac{\text{km/s}}{\text{s}}$. 

How far does Enterprise Tavel by the time it is moving with a speed of 15000 km/s?


<div class="page-break"></div>


### Example 05
An old fashion musket has a barrel length of 1.8 m. After begin fired a bullet leaves the barrel in 0.6 seconds and travels 25 m to hit wooden target.

What is the acceleration of the bullet while it is still in the barrel?

<div class="work-space-sm"></div>


### Example 06
A car, while traveling on the highway at 160 km/hr due west, gets pulled over by the highway patrol.

A) If it takes 0.01 hr accelerating at a constant rate after seeing the patrol car light to come to a
full stop, what is the acceleration of the car (direction and magnitude)?

<div class="work-space-sm"></div>

B) What is the distance traveled during this time?

<div class="work-space-sm"></div>

C) What constant velocity would have allowed the car to travel the same distance in the same
amount of time?







