---
layout: default
title: Physics for Life Sciences I - Worksheet 22
course_home: /courses/phys-for-life-sci-i/
nav_section: practice
nav_order: 22
---

# Lecture 22 Worksheet

---

### Today’s Toolkit

<div class="two-column">

<div class="column">


<strong>Momentum:</strong> 
$$ p = m v$$

$m$: mass<br>
$v$: velocity (vector!)


</div>

<div class="column">


<strong>Conservation of Momentum:</strong> 
$$ p_i + \text{Impulse}_\text{ext} = p_f$$

$p_i$: initial momentum (vector!)<br>
$p_f$: final momentum (vector!)<br>
$\text{Impulse}_\text{ext} $: external impulse (vector!)


</div>

</div>

---

### Example 01
Explain, in your own words what conservation of linear momentum means, and how if can be applied to collisions.

<div class="work-space-tiny"></div>

### Example 02
Explain the relationship between initial and final kinetic energies in the three (3) different types of collisions.

<div class="work-space-tiny"></div><br>

### Example 03
A boxcar ($m = 15837\ \text{kg}$) traveling at 10 m/s approaches a string of four identical boxcars sitting stationary on the track. The moving boxcar collides and links with the stationary cars and the five cars move off together along the track.  

a) What is the final speed of the combined objects?

<div class="work-space-sm"></div>

b) Is the kinetic energy of the system conserved?

<div class="work-space-sm"></div>

c) What kind of collision is this?

<div class="page-break"></div>


### Example 04
The 2 kg block is initially sliding to the right with a speed of 10 m/s. It collides with the 10 kg block and bounces back with a speed of 5 m/s. A little ways to the right of the 10 kg block is a friction region with $\mu_k = 0.5$ and to the left of the 2 kg block is a friction region with $\mu_k = 0.2$.

a) Determine the magnitude and direction of the 10 kg block’s velocity after the collision.  
b) Determine the type of collision between the blocks.  
c) Determine how many second after entering the frictional region the 2 kg block finally comes to rest.  



<div class="work-space-lg"></div>


### Example 05
Object A, with a mass of 5 kg, moves to the right at 4 m/s and collides with object B ($m = 3\ \text{kg}$) initially at rest. After the collision, the two objects move together.

a) Find the final speed of the combined objects.  
b) Calculate the initial and final kinetic energies.  
c) Classify the collision.