---
layout: default
title: Physics for Life Sciences I - Worksheet 31
course_home: /courses/phys-for-life-sci-i/
nav_section: practice
nav_order: 31
---

# Lecture 31 Worksheet

---

### Today’s Toolkit

<div class="two-column">

<div class="column">

<strong>Density</strong>: $ \rho = \frac{m}{V}$  <br>
<strong>Pressure</strong>: $ P = \frac{F}{A}$ <br>
<br>

$m$: mass <br>
$V$: volume <br>
$F$: force <br>
$A$: area 


</div>

<div class="column">


<strong>Bernoulli’s Equation:</strong>
$$
P_1 + \frac{1}{2} \rho v_1^2 + \rho g h_1 = P_2 + \frac{1}{2} \rho v_2^2 + \rho g h_2
$$

$P_1$ and $P_2$: pressure at point 1 and 2 <br>
$v_1$ and $v_2$: fluid velocity at point 1 and 2 <br>
$h_1$ and $h_2$: fluid height at point 1 and 2 <br>
$\rho$: fluid density <br>
$g$: gravitational strength


</div>

</div>

---

### Example 01
A solid metallic cube is first placed in a container filled to the brim with liquid A ($\rho = $ 0.5 g/cc), where it sinks to the bottom spilling 200 cc’s of liquid A out of the container. The metallic cube is then placed in another container filled to the brim with liquid B ($\rho =$ 1.5 g/cc), where is floats partially submerged spilling 80 cc’s of liquid B out of the container.

How do you find the volume of the cube?

a) Information from liquid A  
b) Information from liquid B  
c) Information from both liquids  
d) You can’t  

How do you find the mass of the cube?

a) Information from liquid A  
b) Information from liquid B  
c) Information from both liquids  
d) You can’t  

What is the density of the metal used to construct the cube?

<div class="work-space-tiny"></div><br>

### Example 02
A cube of wood 20 cm on each side is placed in a tub of water and is found to float such that only 6 cm of the block is above the water. What is the density of the wood?

<div class="work-space-tiny"></div>

### Example 03
In your own words, what is Pascal’s Principle?

<div class="work-space-tiny"></div>


### Example 04
The clogged regions of unhealthy arteries have higher, lower, or equal pressure as the neighboring unclogged regions? Explain in your own words using traffic merging into a single lane as an analogy.

<div class="work-space-tiny"></div>


<div class="page-break"></div>


### Example 05
The Bellagio fountains have nozzles that spray water to a height of 75 m. If the water is pressurized to $1.4 \times 10^5$ Pa, what is the speed of the water just before exiting the nozzle? (Assume the water remains a constant stream throughout its motion.)