---
layout: default
title: Physics for Life Sciences I - Worksheet 30
course_home: /courses/phys-for-life-sci-i/
nav_section: practice
nav_order: 30
---

# Lecture 30 Worksheet

---

### Today’s Toolkit

<div class="two-column">

<div class="column">

<strong>Density</strong>: $ \rho = \frac{m}{V}$  <br>
<strong>Pressure</strong>: $ P = \frac{F}{A}$ <br>
<br>

$m$: mass <br>
$V$: volume <br>
$F$: force <br>
$A$: area 


</div>

<div class="column">


<strong>Buoyant Force:</strong>
$$
F^b_\text{fluid,Obj} = \rho_\text{fluid} \, V_\text{displaced by Obj} \, g
$$

$\rho_\text{fluid}$: density of fluid <br>
$V_\text{displaced by Obj}$: displaced volume <br>
$g$: gravitational strength


</div>

</div>

---

### Example 01
You place a block of mass into 3 different fluids we will refer to as A, B, and C.  
> It floats in A with 1/2 of its volume submerged.  
> It floats in B with 1/4 of its volume submerged.  
> It sinks in C.  
In which fluid(s) does the block experience the greatest buoyant force? (Select all that apply)

a) Fluids A 
b) Fluid B  
c) Fluid C  
d) Same for all

### Example 02
A cube of wood 20 cm on each side is placed in a tub of water and is found to float such that only 6 cm of the block is above the water. What is the density of the wood?


<div class="work-space-md"></div>

### Example 03
You are floating on a boat which is in your own swimming pool (you are rich). There are six gold bricks sitting on the floor of the boat (you are rich). You throw the gold bricks off the boat and into the surrounding pool.  The water level of the pool _________.

a) goes up  
b) goes down  
c) stays the same

<div class="page-break"></div>


### Example 04
You have a block of unknown material with a mass of 18 grams and a volume of 20 cc. You have a bucket of water and a bucket of alcohol ( 0.8 g/cc). Both buckets are filled to the brim.

a) What is the density of the block?  
b) Which of the buckets, in any, does the block float in?  
c) When the block is placed slowly in the bucket of water, how many cc’s of water will spill over the edge?  
d) What is the acceleration of the block in the water?  
e) When the block is placed slowly in the bucket of alcohol, how many cc’s of alcohol will spill over the edge?  
f) What is the acceleration of the block in the alcohol?  