---
layout: default
title: Physics for Life Sciences I - Worksheet 33
course_home: /courses/phys-for-life-sci-i/
nav_section: practice
nav_order: 33
---

# Lecture 33 Worksheet

---

### Today’s Toolkit

<div class="two-column">

<div class="column">


<strong>Heat - Changing Temperature:</strong>: $Q = m c \Delta T $ <br>
<strong>Heat - Changing Phase:</strong>: $Q = m h$ <br>
<br>
$m$: mass <br>
$c$: mass specific heat <br>
$\Delta T$: change in temperature <br>
$h$: latent heat<br>

<br>

<strong>Internal Energy IG:</strong>: <br>
$ E = \frac{3}{2} n R T $ or  $ E = \frac{3}{2} N k_B T $



</div>

<div class="column">

<strong>Ideal Gas Law:</strong>: <br>
$ PV = nRT $ or  $ PV = N k_B T $ <br>
<br>
$P$: Pressure <br>
$V$: Volume <br>
$T$: Temperature <br>
$n$: moles OR $N$: number of particles <br>
$R$: 8.31J/(mole L) OR $k_B$: $1.38\times 10^{-23}$ J/K <br>

<br>

<strong>Heat - Changing Phase:</strong>: $Q = m h$ <br>
<br>
$m$: mass <br>
$h$: latent heat

</div>

</div>

---

### Example 01
The molar mass of krypton is 83.8 g. A sample of krypton is measured to have a mass of 419 g.

a) What is the mass of a krypton atom?  
b) How many krypton atoms are there in the sample?  
c) How many moles of krypton are there in the sample?

<div class="work-space-sm"></div><br>

### Example 02
A 0.005 subic meters container is filled with 4 moles of helium gas at $47^\circ\text{C}$.

a) What is the pressure inside the container?
b) How much of the gas would escape if the valve of the container were to be opened into a very large room filled with helium gas at $1.2 \times 10^6\ \text{Pa}$ pressure at the same temperature?

<div class="page-break"></div><br>


### Example 03
A mylar balloon is filled with enough helium gas to blow it up to 3 cubic meters in a room at a temperature of 300 K with a pressure of $9 \times 10^5\ \text{Pa}$.

a) How many atoms of helium are there in the balloon?  
b) If you were to bring the ballon to a party where the temperature is the same as the original room, but the pressure is $1 \times 10^6\ \text{Pa}$. What will the volume of the balloon be when you get to the party?


<div class="work-space-md"></div><br>


### Example 04
A very elastic container is filled with $1.8 \times 10^{23}$ particles of a monatomic gas has a
volume of 0.001 cc's in a room where the ambient pressure of $1.2 \times 10^6\ \text{Pa}$ at 200 K. Suppose the gas
inside the container were heated to 40 K.

a) Find the new volume of the container.  
b) By what factor will the internal energy of the gas change?