---
layout: default
title: Physics for Life Sciences I - Worksheet 34
course_home: /courses/phys-for-life-sci-i/
nav_section: practice
nav_order: 34
---

# Lecture 34 Worksheet

---

### Today’s Toolkit

<div class="two-column">

<div class="column">


<strong>Heat - IG Consant Volume:</strong>: $Q = n C_V \, \Delta T $ <br>
<strong>Heat - IG Constant Pressure:</strong>: $Q = n C_P \, \Delta T$ <br>
<br>
$n$: moles <br>
$c$: mass specific heat <br>
$C_V$: Molar specific heat constant volume <br>
$C_P$: Molar specific heat constant pressure <br>
$\Delta T$: change in temperature <br>



</div>

<div class="column">

<strong>Change of Internal Energy IG:</strong>: <br>
$ \Delta E = \frac{3}{2} n R \Delta T $ or  $ \Delta E = \frac{3}{2} N k_B \Delta T $<br>

<br>

<strong>First Law of Thermodynamics:</strong>: <br>
$\Delta E = Q - W$ <br>
<br>
$\Delta E$: Change in internal energy <br>
$Q$: Heat deivered to system <br>
$W = P\, \Delta V$: Work done on system

</div>

</div>

---

### Example 01
A rigid container filled with 3 moles of a diatomic gas is initially at 290 K. The gas is put over a flame and its temperature increases to 350 K.

a) Determine the change in the internal energy go the gas.  
b) Determine the work done by the gas.  
c) Determine the heat gain/loss for the gas.

<div class="work-space-sm"></div><br>

### Example 02
An elastic balloon is filled with 3 moles of a diatomic gas at a temperature of 290 K. The balloon is dipped in a cold liquid resulting in the gas to drop in temperature to 210 K.

a) Determine the change in the internal energy go the gas.  
b) Determine the heat gain/loss for the gas.  
c) Determine the work done by the gas.

<div class="page-break"></div><br>



### Today’s Toolkit

<div class="two-column">

<div class="column">


<strong>Heat - IG Consant Volume:</strong>: $Q = n C_V \, \Delta T $ <br>
<strong>Heat - IG Constant Pressure:</strong>: $Q = n C_P \, \Delta T$ <br>
<br>
$n$: moles <br>
$c$: mass specific heat <br>
$C_V$: Molar specific heat constant volume <br>
$C_P$: Molar specific heat constant pressure <br>
$\Delta T$: change in temperature <br>



</div>

<div class="column">

<strong>Heat Engine Efficiency:</strong>: <br>
$ \xi = \frac{\lvert W \rvert}{\lvert Q_H \rvert} = \frac{\lvert Q_H \rvert - \lvert Q_L \rvert}{\lvert Q_H \rvert} $<br>

<br>

<strong>Carnot Engine Efficiency:</strong>: <br>
$ \xi = \frac{T_H - T_L}{T_H} $<br>
<br>
<strong>Molar Specific Heats for Constant Volume/Pressure:</strong>: <br>
<br>
Monoatomic: $C_V = \frac{3}{2}$ and $C_P = \frac{5}{2}$<br>
Diatomic: $C_V = \frac{5}{2}$ and $C_P = \frac{7}{2}$<br>
Polyatomic: $C_V = \frac{6}{2}$ and $C_P = \frac{8}{2}$

</div>

</div>

---


### Example 03
A Carnot heat engine has a hot and cold reservoir at 1200 K and 900 K, respectively.

a) What is the efficiency of the engine?  
b) How much energy must be invested to do 200 J of work?  
c) How much waste heat will be generated to do 200 J of work?  
d) What temperature must the cold reservoir be to triple its efficiency?