---
layout: default
title: Physics for Life Sciences I - Short Homework 09
course_home: /courses/phys-for-life-sci-i/
nav_section: homework
nav_order: 9
---

## PHYS 2110 Homework 09 - Newton’s 1st and 2nd Law

---

- Please keep your work organized and neat.
- Solutions should contain a conceptual justification for any physical laws/equations used to solve the problem.
- Please offer a one sentence explanation for any mathematical steps that are more than just algebra.
- Most problems are taken from *College Physics: Putting It All Together* by Hellings, Adams, and Francis

---

<!-- ############### -->
<!-- Question 1 -->
<!-- ############### -->
### Question 1: 
A sled with a mass of 30 kg (including the load sitting on the sled) is pulled to the right by a rope across a level field of snow. The tension in the rope has a constant magnitude of 100 Newtons and makes an angle of 37-degrees with above the horizontal. A frictional force of 50 Newtons acts on the sled by the snow.

a) Draw a free-body diagram for the sled. Be sure to properly label all of the forces.

b) If any of the forces in your diagram are pointing in some awkward angle (like 37-degrees with above the horizontal), break these forces up into their vertical and horizontal components.

c) Find the magnitude of the gravitational force acting on the sled.

d) Use Newton’s second law and the fact that the sled has no acceleration in the vertical direction to solve for the magnitude of the normal force acting on the sled.

e) Use Newton’s second law to find the acceleration of the sled in the horizontal direction.








<div class="page-break"></div>


<!-- ############### -->
<!-- Question 2 -->
<!-- ############### -->
### Question 2: 
A convict of mass 100 kg wants to escape out the window of his cell. So he ties together some old bed sheets for form a rope that he unrolls out the window. Unfortunately, the sheets can support only a tension of 800 N without tearing. The convict figures that if he slides down the sheets with the right constant acceleration, he can avoid tearing the sheets.

a) What is the acceleration that would avoid tearing the sheets?

b) If his window is 16 m about the ground, how fast will he be moving when he hits the ground?

c) For comparison, from what height would he have to jump from without the sheet to hit the ground with the same speed as part (b)?