---
layout: default
title: Physics for Life Sciences I - Short Homework 08
course_home: /courses/phys-for-life-sci-i/
nav_section: homework
nav_order: 8
---

## PHYS 2110 Homework 08 - 2D Kinematics

---

- Please keep your work organized and neat.
- Solutions should contain a conceptual justification for any physical laws/equations used to solve the problem.
- Please offer a one sentence explanation for any mathematical steps that are more than just algebra.
- Most problems are taken from *College Physics: Putting It All Together* by Hellings, Adams, and Francis

---

<!-- ############### -->
<!-- Question 1 -->
<!-- ############### -->
### Question 1: 
A cannonball is shot from ground level at an angle of 37-degrees above a level field. The initial velocity of the cannonball has a magnitude of 50 m/s. Neglect air resistance and answer the following questions:

a) Find the horizontal and vertical components of the initial velocity vector.

> (Hint: Draw the initial velocity and use some trig to break it into its horizontal and vertical components.)

b) How many seconds does the cannonball stay in the air?

> (Hint: What is the vertical position of the ball when it lands on the level ground? You should be able to use this knowledge to find the time.)

c) How far from the cannon will the ball land?

> (Hint: The time you found in part (b) will be helpful here.)

d) How high above the field is the cannonball at its highest point?

> (Hint: You could find the time for this point using something we know about vertical velocity at the maximum height. That time could then be used to get the vertical position. )






<div class="page-break"></div>


<!-- ############### -->
<!-- Question 2 -->
<!-- ############### -->
### Question 2: 
Your friend is stranded on the other side of a canyon. He is getting hungry and so you decide to throw him a banana. You throw the banana with an initial velocity of 20 m/s at an angle of 37-degrees above the horizontal. The canyon is 8 m wide and your fried is a plateau that is 5 m above the point you release the banana from.

a) Find the horizontal and vertical components of the banana’s initial velocity vector.

> (Hint: Draw the initial vertical velocity and use some trig to break it into its horizontal and vertical components.)

b) Determine whether of not the banana will reach your friend on his side of the canyon (i.e., will he get to eat the banana?).

> (Hint: Find the time it takes the banana to get across the canyon horizontally. Then use that time to see where it is vertically. Does it have enough height to make it to your friend, or does it splat into the cliff?)