---
layout: default
title: Physics for Life Sciences I - Short Homework 06
course_home: /courses/phys-for-life-sci-i/
nav_section: homework
nav_order: 6
---

## PHYS 2110 Homework 06 - Gravitational Acceleration

---

- Please keep your work organized and neat.
- Solutions should contain a conceptual justification for any physical laws/equations used to solve the problem.
- Please offer a one sentence explanation for any mathematical steps that are more than just algebra.
- Most problems are taken from *College Physics: Putting It All Together* by Hellings, Adams, and Francis

---

<!-- ############### -->
<!-- Question 1 -->
<!-- ############### -->
### Question 1: 
Fed up with physics, you go to the edge of the roof of USC2 and throw your physics textbook straight up with a speed of 15 m/s. How fast will the book be traveling *just* before hitting the ground 12 m below? Assume the book experiences an acceleration of $−10\ \frac{\text{m/s}}{\text{s}}$ due to gravity (remember, the minus sign means “downwards” or “towards the ground”).








<div class="work-space-md"></div>


<!-- ############### -->
<!-- Question 2 -->
<!-- ############### -->
### Question 2: 
A basketball center holds a basketball straight out, 2.0 m above the floor, and releases it from rest. It bounces off the floor and rises to a height of 1.5 m. Assume the basket ball experiences a downward acceleration of $−10\ \frac{\text{m/s}}{\text{s}}$ due to gravity.

a) What is the ball’s velocity *just before* it hits the floor?

b) What is the ball’s velocity *just after* it leaves the floor?

c) If the ball is in contact with the floor for 0.02 seconds, what are the magnitude and direction of the ball’s average acceleration *while in contact with the floor*?






