---
layout: default
title: Physics for Life Sciences I - Short Homework 05
course_home: /courses/phys-for-life-sci-i/
nav_section: homework
nav_order: 5
---

## PHYS 2110 Homework 05 - Kinematics

---

- Please keep your work organized and neat.
- Solutions should contain a conceptual justification for any physical laws/equations used to solve the problem.
- Please offer a one sentence explanation for any mathematical steps that are more than just algebra.
- Most problems are taken from *College Physics: Putting It All Together* by Hellings, Adams, and Francis

---

<!-- ############### -->
<!-- Question 1 -->
<!-- ############### -->
### Question 1: 
A hobbyist owns an ultralight airplane that requires a speed of $16\ \text{m/s}$ in order to take off. Starting from rest, the airplane’s engine can provide an average acceleration of $3.2\ \frac{\text{m/s}}{\text{s}}$. The hobbyist has a backyard that is $50\ \text{m}$ wide, with no fences or obstacles.

Will the airplane be able to take off within the available distance?

> Hint: You will need to identify the condition that must be satisfied for takeoff to occur. Not all of the given values will necessarily apply at the same time, so think carefully about which quantities are relevant to each part of your reasoning.





<div class="work-space-md"></div>


<!-- ############### -->
<!-- Question 2 -->
<!-- ############### -->
### Question 2: 
A top fuel dragster can cover a quarter-mile ($402\ \text{m}$) in $4.44\ \text{seconds}$, *beginning from rest*. 

Assuming that the acceleration is constant, what acceleration will the driver experience? 

How many times greater is this than the acceleration due to gravity (one “g” is $10\ \frac{\text{m/s}}{\text{s}}$)?








