---
layout: default
title: Physics for Life Sciences I - Short Homework 13
course_home: /courses/phys-for-life-sci-i/
nav_section: homework
nav_order: 13
---

## PHYS 2110 Homework 13 - Apparent Weight

---

- Please keep your work organized and neat.
- Solutions should contain a conceptual justification for any physical laws/equations used to solve the problem.
- Please offer a one sentence explanation for any mathematical steps that are more than just algebra.
- Most problems are taken from *College Physics: Putting It All Together* by Hellings, Adams, and Francis

---

<!-- ############### -->
<!-- Question 1 -->
<!-- ############### -->
### Question 1: 
You are riding upwards in an elevator carrying a 25 kg box of rocks in your arms. As you reach your floor, the elevator begins to slow at a rate of 3 m/s2.

a) What is the direction of the acceleration. Explain.

b) Draw two free-body diagrams; one for you and one for the box of rocks.

c) For each of the forces appearing in your free-body diagrams from part (b), identify any third-law pair forces.

d) Is the net force on the box greater than, less than, or equal to the net force on you? (Hint: If you are in College/University, you probably have a larger mass than 25 kg.)

e) As the elevator is slowing down, is the force exerted by the elevator floor on your feet greater than, less than, or equal to the force exerted by your feet on the elevator floor? Explain.



<div class="page-break"></div>


<!-- ############### -->
<!-- Question 2 -->
<!-- ############### -->
### Question 2: 
A safe filled with gold (total mass of 875 kg) is sitting on a bathroom scale in an elevator. The elevator is moving up and speeding up by 2 m/s2. What is the reading on the scale?