---
layout: default
title: Physics for Life Sciences I - Short Homework 19
course_home: /courses/phys-for-life-sci-i/
nav_section: homework
nav_order: 19
---

## PHYS 2110 Homework 19 - Work-Energy Relation

---

- Please keep your work organized and neat.
- Solutions should contain a conceptual justification for any physical laws/equations used to solve the problem.
- Please offer a one sentence explanation for any mathematical steps that are more than just algebra.
- Most problems are taken from *College Physics: Putting It All Together* by Hellings, Adams, and Francis

---

<!-- ############### -->
<!-- Question 1 -->
<!-- ############### -->
### Question 1: 
Initially, a 10 kg block is sliding along a level floor at a speed of 5 m/s. The coefficient of kinetic friction between the floor and the block is 0.5. 

a) What are the initial kinetic, potential, and total mechanical energies of the block?   
b) What is the the magnitude of the force of friction by the floor on the block?  
c) What is the work done by the frictional force as the block slides 2 m across the floor?   
d) What are the final kinetic, potential, and total mechanical energies of the block?   
e) What is the block's speed after sliding 2 m?





<div class="page-break"></div>


<!-- ############### -->
<!-- Question 2 -->
<!-- ############### -->
### Question 2: 
In an unfortunate hunting accident, a physics professor is non-fatally shot by by an arrow of mass 0.050 kg. The arrow was fired from a spring-loaded launcher in which a spring, with spring constant $k = 80$ N/m, was initially compressed by 0.25 m. The shooter, as yet unidentified, is known to have fired from a window 10 m above where the professor was hit. The arrow penetrated the professor's body to a depth of 0.10 m. 

a) What is the energy of the arrow-spring-earth system just before the spring is released?  
b) How fast was the arrow traveling just before it hit the professor?  
c) What is the average frictional force exerted by the professor on the arrow? 