---
layout: default
title: Physics for Life Sciences I - Short Homework 11
course_home: /courses/phys-for-life-sci-i/
nav_section: homework
nav_order: 11
---

## PHYS 2110 Homework 11 - Kinetic Friction

---

- Please keep your work organized and neat.
- Solutions should contain a conceptual justification for any physical laws/equations used to solve the problem.
- Please offer a one sentence explanation for any mathematical steps that are more than just algebra.
- Most problems are taken from *College Physics: Putting It All Together* by Hellings, Adams, and Francis

---

<!-- ############### -->
<!-- Question 1 -->
<!-- ############### -->
### Question 1: 
Jeff is pushing a 32 kg crate across the floor, but he is making life difficult for himself by applying his 800 N force at an angle of 37-degrees below the horizontal in the rightward direction. The coefficient of kinetic friction between the crate and the floor is 0.50.

a) Draw a free-body diagram for the crate.

b) Find the magnitude of the normal force by the floor on the crate.

c) Find the acceleration (magnitude and direction) of the crate.






<div class="page-break"></div>


<!-- ############### -->
<!-- Question 2 -->
<!-- ############### -->
### Question 2: 
Ron is speeding down a steep mountain pass going 30 m/s, say in a leftward direction. He suddenly sees an elk on the road and slams on his brakes, locking all the wheels while the car slides to a stop. The mass of the car (with Ron in it) is 1000 kg. The coefficient of kinetic friction between the tires and the road is 0.80. The road makes and angle of 20-degrees with the below horizontal.

a) What is the weight of the car (including Ron)?

b) Find the total friction force on the car. Treat the car as if it were a block sliding down a ramp, do not try to deal with each tire individually.

c) Find the acceleration (magnitude and direction) of the car while it is sliding to a stop.

d) How far will the car slide before it comes to a stop?
