---
layout: default
title: Physics for Life Sciences I - Short Homework 24
course_home: /courses/phys-for-life-sci-i/
nav_section: homework
nav_order: 24
---

## PHYS 2110 Homework 24 - 2D Collisions

---

- Please keep your work organized and neat.
- Solutions should contain a conceptual justification for any physical laws/equations used to solve the problem.
- Please offer a one sentence explanation for any mathematical steps that are more than just algebra.
- Most problems are taken from *College Physics: Putting It All Together* by Hellings, Adams, and Francis

---

<!-- ############### -->
<!-- Question 1 -->
<!-- ############### -->
### Question 1: 
Three identical Volvos, each of mass 2000 kg, enter an intersection; one heading west, on heading east and one heading north. Each of them is initially traveling at 30 m/s. The three collide and lock bumpers, becoming on single mangled Volvo-thing with a dozen wheels. 

a) Find the total momentum (magnitude and direction) of the three-car system just before the collision.  
b) What is the total momentum (magnitude and direction)  of the three-car system just after the collision? Explain your reasoning.  
c) Find the velocity (magnitude and direction) of the mangled Volvo-thing just after the collision.   
d) Find the kinetic energy of the Volvo-thing just after the collision.  
e) If the coefficient of kinetic friction between the Volvo-thing and the road is $\mu_k = 0.2$, find the distance the Volvos will slide before coming to rest.









<div class="page-break"></div>


<!-- ############### -->
<!-- Question 2 -->
<!-- ############### -->
### Question 2: 
Two football players are running along perpendicular paths. One player is moving to the right with a speed of 4 m/s and a mass of 100 kg. The other player is moving forward with a speed of 6 m/s and a mass of 50 kg. The smaller player tackles the larger one at the point of their collision and stay stuck together (this player actually knows how to wrap their arms when tackling), sliding along the ground. Take the coefficient of kinetic friction to be 0.20 for this problem. Find the following:

a) the total momentum of the system just before the collision (magnitude and direction).  
b) the total momentum of the system just after the collision (magnitude and direction).  
c) the final velocity of the players (magnitude and direction) right after the collision.  
d) the kinetic energy of the system just after the collision.  
e) the distance the players slide before coming to rest.


