---
layout: default
title: Physics for Life Sciences I - Short Homework 23
course_home: /courses/phys-for-life-sci-i/
nav_section: homework
nav_order: 23
---

## PHYS 2110 Homework 23 - 1D Collisions

---

- Please keep your work organized and neat.
- Solutions should contain a conceptual justification for any physical laws/equations used to solve the problem.
- Please offer a one sentence explanation for any mathematical steps that are more than just algebra.
- Most problems are taken from *College Physics: Putting It All Together* by Hellings, Adams, and Francis

---

<!-- ############### -->
<!-- Question 1 -->
<!-- ############### -->
### Question 1: 
As small block of mass $m_1 = 2$ kg is pushed by hand to compress a spring a distance $\Delta s = 0.50$ m. The hand then releases the block from rest and the spring launches the block across a frictionless surface toward a large block of mass $m_2 = 4$ kg that is initially not moving. The small block is moving with a velocity of 6 m/s to the right just before colliding with the large block. After the collision, the large blcok is observed to be moving with a velocity of 4 m/s to the right. The large block then slides over a long, rough section of the track having a coefficient of friction $\mu_k = 0.25$, and is eventually brought to rest after a time interval $\Delta t$. 

a) Find the spring constant of the spring.  
b) Find the velocity (magnitude and direction) of the small block just after the collision.  
c) What is the system's kinetic energy just before the collision?  
d) What is the system's kinetic energy just after the collision?  
e) Is this collision maximally inelastic, inelastic, or elastic? Explain you reasoning.  
f) How long does the large block slide along the friction patch before coming to rest? 








<div class="page-break"></div>


<!-- ############### -->
<!-- Question 2 -->
<!-- ############### -->
### Question 2: 
A pendulum bob of mass 4 kg is released from a height $h$ and swings down to collide with a stationary block of mass 6 kg. Right before the collision the bob is moving to the left with a speed of 5 m/s. Just after the collision, the block is traveling to the left with a speed of 3 m/s. The block then slides over a very long, rough surface with a coefficient of kinetic friction that is exactly $\mu_k = 0.2$, bringing the block to a stop at a point $\Delta x$ past the beginning of the rough section. 

a) Find the height $h$ from which the bob was released from rest.   
b) Find the velocity (magnitude and direction) of the bob right after the collision.  
c) What is the kinetic energy of the bob-block system just before the collision?  
d) What is the kinetic energy of the bob-block system just after the collision?  
e) Is this collision maximally inelastic, inelastic, or elastic? Explain.  
f) How far will the block slide across the rough section of track before it comes to rest? 


