---
layout: default
title: Physics for Life Sciences I - Short Homework 22
course_home: /courses/phys-for-life-sci-i/
nav_section: homework
nav_order: 22
---

## PHYS 2110 Homework 22 - Conservation of Momentum

---

- Please keep your work organized and neat.
- Solutions should contain a conceptual justification for any physical laws/equations used to solve the problem.
- Please offer a one sentence explanation for any mathematical steps that are more than just algebra.
- Most problems are taken from *College Physics: Putting It All Together* by Hellings, Adams, and Francis

---

<!-- ############### -->
<!-- Question 1 -->
<!-- ############### -->
### Question 1: 
A 4 kg block slides to the right at 12 m/s on a frictionless table and collides head-on with a 6 kg block that is moving to the left at 12 m/s. Right after the collision, the small block is seen to be moving to the left at 3 m/s. Find the final velocity of the large block. 







<div class="work-space-lg"></div>


<!-- ############### -->
<!-- Question 2 -->
<!-- ############### -->
### Question 2: 
A small block ($m_S = 4$ kg) and a large block ($m_L = 12$ kg) experiences a head-on collision on a frictionless tabletop. Before the collision, the small block was moving 8 m/s to the right and the large block was moving at 4 m/s to the left. 


a) Is the small block bounces back from the collision with a velocity of 3 m/s to the left, find the final velocity (magnitude and direction) of the large block.   
b) Suppose instead that the two blocks stick together when the collide. Now, what will the final velocity of the two stuck-together blocks be?   
c) How many joules of kinetic energy would be lost in the collision in part (b)? 

