---
layout: default
title: Physics for Life Sciences I - Short Homework 30
course_home: /courses/phys-for-life-sci-i/
nav_section: homework
nav_order: 30
---

## PHYS 2110 Homework 30 - Pressure-Density

---

- Please keep your work organized and neat.
- Solutions should contain a conceptual justification for any physical laws/equations used to solve the problem.
- Please offer a one sentence explanation for any mathematical steps that are more than just algebra.
- Most problems are taken from *College Physics: Putting It All Together* by Hellings, Adams, and Francis

---

<!-- ############### -->
<!-- Question 1 -->
<!-- ############### -->
### Question 1: 
A ball of mass 0.4 kg and volume 100 cm$^3$ is released from rest just under the surface of a lake of fresh water. 

a) Find the buoyant force acting on the ball. [Hint: Careful with your units!]. 
b) Find the acceleration of the ball right after it has been released. [Hint: Don't forget about gravity!]







<div class="work-space-md"></div>


<!-- ############### -->
<!-- Question 2 -->
<!-- ############### -->
### Question 2: 
You have a block of unknown material of mass 20 grams and volume 22 cm$^3$. You have a bucket of water ($\rho = 1$ g/cm$^3$) and a bucket of alcohol ($\rho = 0.79$ g/cm$^3$). Both buckets are filled right to the brim.

a) What is the density of the block?  
b) If you had a 37 gram sample made from the same material as the block, what would its volume be?  
c) Which of the buckets, if any, will the block float in? Explain.  
d) When the block is placed slowly and carefully in the bucket of water, how many cm$^3$ of water spills over the edge of the bucket?  
e) When the block is placed slowly and carefully in the bucket of alcohol, how many cm$^3$ of alcohol spills over the edge of the bucket?
