---
layout: default
title: Physics for Life Sciences I - Short Homework 32
course_home: /courses/phys-for-life-sci-i/
nav_section: homework
nav_order: 32
---

## PHYS 2110 Homework 32 - Thermal Properties of Matter

---

- Please keep your work organized and neat.
- Solutions should contain a conceptual justification for any physical laws/equations used to solve the problem.
- Please offer a one sentence explanation for any mathematical steps that are more than just algebra.
- Most problems are taken from *College Physics: Putting It All Together* by Hellings, Adams, and Francis

---

<!-- ############### -->
<!-- Question 1 -->
<!-- ############### -->
### Question 1: 
When the pioneers were crossing the plains in covered wagons, a metal rim could be attached to the wooden wagon wheel by heating the metal rim and then placing it over the wheel before it cooled. The shrink-attachment would firmly hold the rim in place and strengthen the wheel. Suppose a certain wooden wagon wheel has an outer circumference of 300.0 cm and that its iron rim has an inside circumference of 299.5 cm when it is 15$^\circ C$. To what temperature must the rim be heated so that it will just fit over the wheel? Take the coefficient of thermal linear expansion for iron to be 11.7$\times 10^{-6}$ (1/$^\circ$C).







<div class="work-space-lg"></div>


<!-- ############### -->
<!-- Question 2 -->
<!-- ############### -->
### Question 2: 
 You are given a 0.2 kg chuck of lead at 20$^\circ C$. You place the lead chunk inside a scientific heating apparatus that transfers 500 J of heat to the chunk per second. The melting point for lead is 328$^\circ C$. The specific heat of lead is 130 J/(kg K). The latent heat of fusion of lead is 23,000 J/kg.


a) How long after you started heating the lead chunk will it start to melt?  
b)  How long after the lead chunk starts to melt will it be completely in the liquid form?
