---
layout: default
title: Physics for Life Sciences I - Short Homework 31
course_home: /courses/phys-for-life-sci-i/
nav_section: homework
nav_order: 31
---

## PHYS 2110 Homework 31 - Pascal's Principle and Bernoulli

---

- Please keep your work organized and neat.
- Solutions should contain a conceptual justification for any physical laws/equations used to solve the problem.
- Please offer a one sentence explanation for any mathematical steps that are more than just algebra.
- Most problems are taken from *College Physics: Putting It All Together* by Hellings, Adams, and Francis

---

<!-- ############### -->
<!-- Question 1 -->
<!-- ############### -->
### Question 1: 
An auto mechanic wants to raise a 10,000 kg truck on a hydraulic lift in which the large main cylinder has a radius of 10 cm. The small cylinder has a radius of 2 cm. How much force must be applied to the small cylinder's plunger to keep the car from moving while it is resting on the large cylinder?







<div class="work-space-lg"></div>


<!-- ############### -->
<!-- Question 2 -->
<!-- ############### -->
### Question 2: 
 Due to plaque buildup, a small part of a patient's aorta has a smaller radius than a regular, healthy aorta.

a) Is the flow of blood (assuming it is a frictionless fluid) in the unhealthy aorta faster, slower, or the same and the flow of blood in a healthy aorta? Explain.  
b) Is the pressure in the unhealthy aorta higher, lower, or the same as the pressure in the healthy aorta. Assume you are looking at a perfectly horizontal section of the aorta, so you do not need to take changes in height into consideration.  Hint: Use Bernoulli's flow equation to help justify your answer. 
