---
layout: default
title: Mathematical Methods - Practice Day 04
course_home: /courses/math-methods/
nav_section: practice
nav_order: 4
---

# Practice Day 04
	

---


<!-- ############### -->
<!-- Question 1 -->
<!-- ############### -->

## Undetermined Coefficients

Solve the following second-order linear ODEs using the method of undetermined coefficients. 

$$
	y'' + 3y' + 2y = \sin(t) \qquad \quad   y'' - 4y' + 4y = 5e^{2t}  \qquad \quad y'' + 3y' + 2y = e^{-t}
$$

Be sure to:

- Find the homogeneous solution.
- Propose a suitable form for the particular solution and justify your guess.
- Combine to give the general solution.




## Variation of Parameters Practice

Solve the following second-order inhomogeneous ODEs using variation of parameters.

$$
y'' - y = \frac{1}{\cosh(t)}   \qquad \quad     y'' + y = \tan(t) \,\, \Big(\text{for } 0 < t < \frac{\pi}{2}\Big)     \qquad \quad y'' + 4y = \sec(2t)
$$

Be sure to:

- Find the homogeneous solution.
- Remember to apply the auxiliary condition when applying variation of parameters.
- Combine to give the general solution.




## Laplace Transformation of a Function

Calculate the Laplace transform of the following function:

$$
f(t) = t e^{-2t} + \cos(3t)
$$

Show your steps clearly and simplify your final expression. Check you answer using the transformation table from the class notes. 







## Laplace Transform and Solving ODEs

a) Suppose we model an RL-circuit with a Laplace-transformed system:

$$
L \frac{dI}{dt} + RI = V_0 U(t)
$$

Let $ L = 1 $, $ R = 2 $, and $ V_0 = 5 $. Use Laplace transforms to find $ I(t) $.

<br>

b) Use the Laplace transform to solve the initial value problem:

$$
y'' + y = \delta(t - \pi), \quad y(0) = 0, \quad y'(0) = 0
$$







## Systems of ODEs

a) Consider two masses connected by springs as in class. The system is governed by:

$$
\frac{d^2x_1}{dt^2} = -4x_1 + 2x_2 \qquad \frac{d^2x_2}{dt^2} = 2x_1 - 3x_2
$$


- Write this as a system of first-order ODEs.
- Is this system stable or unstable? 
- Find the general solution. 

<br>

b) Solve the system:

$$\frac{d}{dt} \begin{bmatrix}
	x \\ y
\end{bmatrix} =
\begin{bmatrix}
	1 & 2 \\
	4 & -1
\end{bmatrix}
\begin{bmatrix}
	x \\ y
\end{bmatrix}
$$


- Find the eigenvalues and eigenvectors.
- Write the general solution.





